The Philippines' archipelago is composed of over 7,000 islands.
It spans an area of about 1,850 kilometers from north to south,
and some 1,125 kilometers from east to west.
In the large cities, people often crowd into jeepneys for public transportation.
In the vast rural areas, farming and fishing are common occupations.
Rice is normally served at every meal.
Sea food too is very common,
along with vegetables and such unique fruits as mango steam, jackfruit and durian.
How has Jehovah's name been glorified in these islands?
In 1912, CT Russell stopped in Manila and gave a talk on the subject where are the dead?
The Watchtower reported that there were present about 1,000 Filipino young men ages from 18 to 30,
who understand English and who gave the very closest attention.
Several decades later, in 1947, the first Gilead graduates arrived.
In 1954, Raymond Leach and Denton Hopkinson also arrived.
Brother Hopkinson entered the circuit work at age 22,
and now serves on the branch committee.
The number of publishers when I first arrived was 20,000 in the Philippines.
Now it's more than 240,000, so I would never have believed it at that time.
Brother Hironimo lastima helped to spread the truth in the mountains, even though there were dangers.
They said that don't go to the remote display, there are still hundreds there.
We complied with the admonition and still my head is still here.
The sisters were effective in teaching the truth to the local people.
Then in turn, the locals were baptized and became pioneers.
They understood the culture of their own people and knew how to witness effectively.
Sister Nora Fajardo was among them.
Although we are just two, we are very brave, pristingly, useless,
to all the people, to the whole world, to give us power to do the work of the cybermaking.
Through such efforts, the number of publishers continued to increase,
surpassing 77,000 by 1975.
In November 2022,
for the first time, over 240,000 publishers reported field service activity.
Also, over 210,000 Bible studies were conducted.
All of this, as we were coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Recently, when a girl named Stephanie saw the books and magazines at a literature cart,
she told her mother that she already finished reading the publications they picked up previously.
Stephanie asked for a copy of Enjoy Life Forever,
a Bible study was offered, and with her parents' permission, Stephanie accepted.
Later, she learned God's personal name Jehovah.
Now, every time she prays, she uses God's name.
Stephanie continues with her study of the Bible.
From January 16th through the 27th, 2023,
the Philippines received a branch visit.
In connection with the visit, a special meeting was held at the Metro Manila Assembly Hall
in Sunday, January 22nd.
This was the first large in-person event in nearly three years.
Total attendance was 341,643,
around 100,000 more than the number of publishers.
After the program, we enjoyed a special meal and musical program.
The Philippines' Bethel family is happy and colorful.
Each day, we enjoyed association, worship, and delicious food.
We also met with each of the departments to provide encouragement.
What a joy it is to be part of our united, loving, international family.
How true are the words of Isaiah 24-15?
In the islands of the sea, they will glorify the name of Jehovah.